As the new semester begins, a new set of challenges are brought about. This time, it is to learn the Javascript language (among other things), something which I am almost completely unfamiliar with with the exception of hacking in Minecraft years ago. As a first impression, it seemed nearly identical to many other languages in syntax with some minor changes, however it also brought a new way of approaching functions. 

First, I am someone who took many algorithms classes because of my major, many of the lessons in the introduction were very similar to algorithms I have already learned before. However, it got me used to some of the tools that Javascript gives compared to languages like Java or C. For example, simple things like nested loops are all too familiar to me, where the only difference would be instead of defining the iteration integer with int, we use let. For these reasons, at least the first set of 113 problems were relatively easy and the ES6 posing a significantly harder challenge. 

Since I am unfamiliar with both software engineering and Javascript I don’t think it would be fair to evaluate it as a good or bad language as it likely has many nuances that I am unaware of that might make it better or worse. However as someone who has never used Javascript, it is rather intuitive when compared to Java or python as much of the syntax is nearly identical. I would say it is a good language as it seems to be built with things like HTML and CSS in mind, which ES6 definitely proves to be true. Software engineering is very interesting, and definitely something I can see myself needing in the future, which is why I would think athletic software engineering might help to foster these skills. As someone who wants to look into virtual reality or augmented reality in the future, I think being competent in many things to do with computers would all be good. 

Finally, as for the WODs, I think the practice was helpful in getting familiar with JSfiddle. It definitely helped to familiarize me with how to use it since it would probably have taken me the majority of the time during the in-class practice to just figure out how to write and run the code. Being someone who always struggles to keep up with deadlines, it is definitely stressful to look at the calendar and always feel like I am behind since there is always something due for one of my classes. For example, this week on top of the many Javascript introductions, I had to read a few technical papers for one class, get a virtual machine installed and set up for another class, read a few chapters in the textbook for that same class, and on top of it all be able to balance being a TA and having my own free time for the gym or other activities. Being able to manage my time is something I struggle with, but definitely would be worth the effort at the end of the semester when I pull off with passing all the classes. In order to make it work, I simply need to put in as much as I intend to get out (which is hopefully an A and many good skills). 

If I had to leave off with one thing, I think learning a new coding language is always interesting as it makes me feel a sense of accomplishment when I start getting a hang of it. Even if it is extremely similar to another language in syntax, taking the first steps of trying it and failing is always hard for me. This class gave me a good reason to finally try my hand in Javascript and I think it was one of the more interesting endeavors I have tried to learn in college. Not that other subjects aren't interesting, but for me learning a new programming languages cannot be compared as there is just a satisfaction that nothing else gives. 
